Claud Gage defense has been uh it's
racism these are they are racists that
are are going after her and for them to
acknowledge that I'm a black woman you
know that has worked very hard in her
career you know has been distinguished
as a professor they're not they're not
going there I have the uh greatest uh
claim against her because her
dissertation where she got her PhD that
started her career was framed around my
work they're not even willing to have a
discussion with my
[Music]
attorneys hello everybody I'm speaking
today with Dr Carol Swain Dr Swain was a
professor of political science and
professor of law at Vanderbilt and also
worked at Princeton now she came from a
backwoods family 12 kids mother in some
distress dropped out of school when she
was in grade8 then got went back to get
her GED then a 2-year community college
degree then a four-year degree she
stacked up five degrees and ended up
with a very
Stellar academic career um she's
published or edited 12 books uh
including one that's been cited by the
Supreme Court three times very solid
person from an academic perspective why
is she interesting well she's
interesting for all those reasons but
she's also interesting because she
happens to be black and uh she also
happens to
be the target of plagiarism by Claudine
gay at Harvard University now you may
remember that Claudine gay was the last
president of Harvard University and was
asked to step down not least because of
the revelation of her proclivity
pronounced proclivity for plagiarism and
one of the major sources that gay relied
on was Carol Swain and so we're going to
talk about that join us well Dr Swain
thank you very much for agreeing to
speak today to me and to everybody who's
watching and listening I guess we should
probably start with a little bit of
description about who you are and where
you came from what you're doing well
everything about me and the positions I
take in the world I know it's rooted in
where I came from and I was one of 12
children born and raised in rural
poverty in Southwestern Virginia I spent
the early part of my life in a two room
Shack with no indoor plumbing I dropped
out of school after completing the
eighth grade married at age 16 and then
in my early 20s I uh I earned a GED
which is a high school equivalency went
to a community college got the first to
five degrees I graduated in 1983 with a
bachelor's degree magna loud I never
intended to become a university
Professor I struggled with shyness most
of my life and people came into my life
they steered me and I became a professor
but it's not something that I ever saw
happening for myself many of those
people were white men white professors
who encouraged me they never treated me
like a victim but I grew up at a Time in
America where we were told if you worked
hard and got an education you could make
something out of yourself so let's delve
into that a bit more so that's that's
quite a that's quite a twisty Journey
that's for sure you were married at 16
and you went back to college at 23 is
that right 23 had did had you had
children by then I I think I I probably
was 23 when I went to uh the four-year
college but I had my first child at 17
and so in my early 20s uh I had three
children one died of a of a crib death
the sudden infant death
syndrome and I struggled with depression
suicide uh gestures and it was a medical
doctor uh who turns out to be to have
been Catholic he was 5 years older than
me he was the first person to tell me
that I was intelligent I was attractive
I could do more with my life and based
on his encouragement I earned my high
school equivalency because I remembered
that when I was in school that I did
really well and later there was an
African orderly from Sierra own a Muslim
who told me that he attended college
with a lot of people who were not as
smart as I was I or to go to college and
so those two people helped change my
life but along the way I came through um
the educational system at a time after
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 had passed
and so there was um a recruitment of
talented minorities with the emphasis on
talented minorities
and I benefited from an environment that
I was intelligent I worked hard I caught
people's attention and when I earned my
bachelor's degree at ronal College in
Salem Virginia graduating Magna C L I
was working full-time nights and
weekends at the Community College
library and so I don't have a lot of
sympathy for this Dei and all this stuff
about minorities can't do because I know
what I did
do right well it certainly seems like
you came from well you might say almost
an archetypally unlikely background
right and poor multi- children no no you
said no running water no indoor plumbing
right um married very early very early
children okay so here's a question for
you you had these two guys you you
talked about this physician and you
talked about this this Muslim gentleman
who saw something in you and then
encouraged you okay so first first
question might be what what do you think
they saw in you and how did they see it
and then the second question would be
why did you believe what they told you
when it was encouraging and
complimentary right so there's two
Mysteries they saw something in you but
you
also
obviously decided to what take a big
risk now you said you remembered that
you had done well in school so you had
that going for you right you sort of had
that in your back pocket but it's easy
to rush off encouragement you know and I
mean you had every reason as far as I
can tell to presume that well there's
just no way you could do it that was
beyond you it was too late you already
had children that time had gone like
there's a million rationalizations that
you could have used instead of going to
get your GED and then going to community
college so why did you do it well first
of all my mother would say that I was
different from her other children that I
was always serious but as a child I had
had a sense of urgency and I also um
felt like that I had been dropped from
out of space and I was watching my
family like a participant Observer uh my
mother said I would hide behind
Furniture because I was terribly shot
and I would peer out at people and but I
had a sense of
urgency and was very serious but then
ended up uh you know feeling trapped
getting married not because I was
pregnant because I saw that as a way out
and I had
um during the time that I was a child we
missed a lot of school one year my
siblings and I missed 80 of 180 school
days and that had to do with the weather
being bad we didn't have proper clothes
or or shoes and so we stayed home until
the snow melted we all failed and I
recently uh noticed uh as I was trying
to work on a memoir that I failed three
times in elementary school but we could
my older sister and I could miss uh you
know two weeks of school come in and
make an A or B on a test and so I I
remembered that I was smart at one time
but I had forgotten until the this uh
medical doctor uh who happened to be
white who was 5 years older than me and
I didn't know that at the time but we
had reacquainted in the last 5 years is
he remembered me he said he always
wondered what happened to me he he was
not on social media and he obviously was
not watching conservative uh news right
okay so so you remembered that you had
done well in school and your first step
was to take the GED and how long did it
take you that was you had to make up
four years he you said you stopped in
grade eight you had to make up four
years and so how long did it take you to
get your GED and how did you managed to
persist and also did you have support
around you like was your husband
supportive was your family supportive
did you have people who were also
encouraging you apart from these two
gentlemen well I can tell you that most
people say if they didn't know it was a
true story that they wouldn't they would
not believe it but with the GED I
studied a book at home and I was told
that I had one of the high SCH scores uh
that they had seen But in math I barely
passed I I was in the 34th percentile if
and if I had been in the 32nd percentile
I would have failed the math portion and
in graduate school and doing my time at
the community college math and
statistics that was a challenge but I
took remedia math at the community
college and as far as um people who
encourag me certainly when I reached the
Community College there were plenty of
encourages but I never sought uh to
become a university Professor my first
degree was in a business I wanted to be
an artist I have art Talent uh but I was
told to be practical and I can tell you
one thing that made me different I think
than a lot of young people sometimes I
run into people that are wired the way I
was is that if there was an authority
figure that gave me advice I was prone
to follow the advice and so if they told
me that it was not practical to do art I
chose business and that was more
challenging but I ended up getting my
two-year degree in business in two years
and then for the bachelor's degree it
was criminal justice because I love
those courses and political science for
the Masters and PhD and then later I
went to law school uh in for a one-year
program at Yale and I never again sought
to become a university Professor my
motivator was to be able to get a good
job and so I could support my family I
had been in bad marriages and I saw an
opportunity that if I got educated and I
did try to distinguish myself I made a
decision to be an honor student at at
Rono college and I study I purchased and
and checked out books on how to make A's
in college how to do essay exams and I
also watched how other people dressed
and I had people comment that I was
dressed inappropriately for a student I
was dressing like a professor as a
student because I was watching other
people trying to figure out what they
were doing and so if I My Success has
had a lot to do with I've had great
mentors over the course of my life and
even now I have mentors I don't think
you get too old to have a mentor all
right so you you finished your two your
degree in business and then you were
pursuing criminal justice and then
political science and law when did the
idea I remember you know when I decided
to go to graduate school this was at the
University of Alberta we're we're our
tracks parallel each other to some
degree in terms of our age and you know
when I went to graduate school when I
started considering graduate school I
didn't know anyone who had ever gone to
graduate school and so it was quite a
mystery to me the whole situation and I
started to associate a little B with a
psychology Lab at my last year at the
University of Alberta I guess that would
be in
1983 and that's when I formulated the
ambition to pursue a graduate degree
you you you finished your business
degree and then your fouryear bachelor's
how did you come across the idea of
going off to do graduate work and and
then maybe you could wind in the story
about your mentors as well and describe
exactly you know what role they played
and why they were important it's really
important to have guidance you know like
when I went to graduate school I had an
I had a superb advisor like he was
everything I could hope for he was a
really good administrator he knew the
literature extremely broadly he was very
very encouraging like we worked together
like clockwork and it was I still work
with him it's 40 years later like we had
a great relationship super important so
how did you develop the idea that you
should go to graduate school and how did
you get the confidence up to do that cuz
he also said that you had to overcome
shyness and what role did your mentors
play in that well first I have to tell
you that I wanted to be a store manager
at the mall I applied for jobs after I
earned my 2-year degree and I was told I
needed a 4-year degree and I knew that I
needed to distinguish myself and so I
chose criminal justice because it was
filled with uh courses interdisciplinary
courses that I thought I would do well
in and I did and so that's how I chose
criminal justice and while I was uh
getting my uh bachelor's degree I
started getting letters from colleges
universities and my advisor it turns out
he was a conservative he exposed me to
Glenn Lowry Walter Williams Milton
fredman uh Edward banfield's work and I
was by the time I was graduating with
the four-year degree I knew I didn't
want to a criminal justice career I went
to Virginia Tech thinking that I would
work for the government like a lot of
other black people I would would get a
job with the federal government while I
was there my professors and they were
progressives they really told pushed me
by saying that there was a critical need
for black professors if you can become a
professor you should become one I was
not interested this was the 1980s and
you may recall the 1980 uh 384 we had a
recession I could not get a job and
that's why I applied to graduate school
and the University of of uh North
Carolina Chapel Hill immediately
admitted me they gave me a generous uh
stien which I believe was like
$111,000 which was a lot of money back
in the
1980s and that's how I got to graduate
school but at Virginia Tech the
mentoring was important I started given
conference papers and that um and being
exposed to
Academia but actually uh pursuing a PhD
and becoming a professor was something
that I followed that path when I was not
able to get a job right okay okay so now
couple of things to delve into there so
you said that when you were doing your
2-year degree and then your 4-year
degree that you are also working
full-time
and you said that you were learning how
to be a student and reading about how to
do that and watching other people and
dressing up essentially and so how much
time per week do you suppose you were
working let's say in the third year of
your four-year degree if you totaled up
the amount of classes you were taking
the studying you were doing and the and
the job that you had how many hours a
day do you think you were putting in
that were that were you know actual work
and for how
long well for at least three years at
ronal College I worked nights and
weekends and it was in circulation in
the library and I confess not many
people use the library nights and
weekends so was a perfect job for a
student oh yes okay and so I went to
school during the daytime I was working
in circulation during the evening and I
was able to get my schoolwork done and
so that's how graduated Magna loud it's
not that I was some genius but I was
very focused on I needed to distinguish
myself and I'm not stupid I knew that um
as a black person that if I excelled
that I would be rewarded for that and
sure enough you know my first semester
it's like everyone knew my name at that
small liberat college that was
predominantly white because I had
distinguished myself and when you when I
think think about race my race has
advantaged me um I would say more than
it's disadvantaged me certainly once I
reached college and a lot of it had to
do with the fact that I've always tried
to distinguish myself I've had great
mentors and those mentors did not look
like me in fact my advisor uh is and was
a republican I didn't know that but when
I started college I was met by the black
students who were already there that
gave me the list of racist professors he
was at the top of the list and and I'm
the kind of person you throw that in the
gauntlet so they told me he was racist I
signed up for his class first because I
wanted to um I knew that if I could
impress him that it would make a
difference the professor was not racist
but he had high standards and we're
friends
today just recently Saudi Arabia ended
its 50-year Petro deal with the US which
has the potential to weaken the US
dollar since 1974 Saudi Arabia has sold
oil solely in US Dollars which was huge
for our global economic dominance now
they want other options if there's less
demand for the US dollar what happens to
its value it's reasons like this that
make it important to diversify some of
your savings into gold and you can do
that with help from Birch gold right now
qualifying purchases by July 31st are
eligible to get a one-of aine limited
edition golden truth bomb the only way
to claim your eligibility though is by
texting Jordan to 98 9898 for over 20
years Birch gold group has helped tens
of thousands of Americans to protect
their savings by converting an IRA or
401K into an IRA and physical gold
protect your savings by diversifying
away from the US dollar with gold text
Jordan to 9898917350
9898 98
today okay so two questions still now
you know you said that you were very shy
and so but when you were in college you
were at conferences giving academic
papers and so what did you how did you
manage your shyness and then also how
did you become disciplined and and able
to work so diligently and to focus you
said a little bit of that was there when
you were a kid you were a serious kid
you had a sense of urgency so likely
have a temperamental tilt in that
direction but you know you worked very
hard to get your GED and your degrees
and so how did you learn to work and how
did you overcome your
shyness well when I was an undergraduate
as you know most professors will set
aside 10% for class participation and I
wanted to earn that 10% so I would write
out a question or I'd write out a
comment and I would raise my hand
shaking and I would read my comment or
ask my question that's how I got the
class participation and when it came to
conferences or whenever I had to speak I
overprepared like today you know I can
do things out the cuff but back then I
tried to write out everything I was
going to say and I was not really um I
would say delivered of that shinness
until I was in my 40s so most of my life
I have been shot also would like for you
to know that it wasn't just the doctor
and the orderly who told me you know
that I was talented at least three times
in my life I had complete strangers come
up to me in my early 20s late teens and
they said you're going to be famous
someday do you know you're going to be
famous and there was nothing nothing I
was doing at at the time that it made
any sense yeah well there's no shortage
of strange things about life so you said
you were delivered of your shyness about
when you were 40 so in your 40s so why
did you persevere and how did you learn
to speak off the cuff and how did it
come about that you were delivered of
your shyness before I get to that I want
to tell you that I took psychology
courses and and usually made um an a i I
had great fear in my early 20s that I
was suffering from delusions of grander
because I never fit where I was and I
had no idea that I would go to college
or I would become you know the person
that I am today and so that um is a part
of what
happened part of my background but the
other part of it is you ask me how did I
overcome the shinness
yep I I had uh after I earned my tenure
at Princeton I earned early tenure on
the basis of my book Black Faces black
interests the representation of
African-Americans in Congress it was my
first book it's the one that won three
National prizes was cited by the Supreme
Court it's the book that Claudine gay
plagarized and used as a straw man for
her own research after that at the early
tenure the prizes I was very dis
illusion like I had worked so hard like
nights and I had worked without taking
off breaks during the Summers I can
remember um doing everything I had to do
in the day going back to work and being
there working overnight when the
cleaning crew came in and I was so
obsessed with getting early tenure and I
got my early tenure but then I was
disillusioned and I really didn't fit at
Princeton and and I guess I would never
fit in the ivy leg because once I was
hired and I received a signning bonus
and I was a hot
shot then when I looked around at the
other people who were at the table they
spoke in these long paragraphs and like
if they were going to ask a question if
they were going to uh take someone down
they had a particular way of speaking
that was foreign to me like if I was
going to ask a question I tend to be
very direct I go straight but I noticed
the way they argued and I I was
miserable and that sort of set in motion
a spiritual journey and I can say that
spiritually I was always a Seeker I
studied New Age Eastern
religion and I had a Christian
conversion experience I became a divide
Christian believer in
1999 but it was a journey before I had
this the
culmination and it was like I was
delivered instantly from my shyness and
I would argue that it's like I would say
God impressed on my mind that he had
given me a message bigger than me and
that I should focus on the message and
when I thought about my shyness I was
always uh embarrassed by my Southern uh
accent I was embarrassed that people
could tell that I came from poverty and
all of that kept me silent I was
embarrassed that I make grammatical
mistakes at times all those things work
to keep me silent but when I realized I
only had to please God it didn't matter
what other people
thought I've been talking ever since
Without Really caring what people think
I try to be careful I try to speak truth
but at the end of the day I'm not going
to lose sleep if I make a mistake or if
someone laughs at me that's their
problem reminds me of the scene in
Exodus you know when Moses becomes a
lead
he goes off the beaten path and follows
the call of the burning bush and he
focuses intently and follows his
interest and delves further and further
into the mystery that's caught his
attention and eventually God himself
speaks to him and tells him that he has
to become a leader he has to lead his
people away from slavery and he has to
stand up to the Tyrant and Moses said
says I can't do that because I'm not a
good speaker I no one knows what his
problem was precisely but Moses
certainly believed that he didn't have
the talent or the ability to say what he
was being called upon to say and God's
response to that is twofold the first
part of the response is something like
well that's your problem and just
because you have um inadequacies or
idiosyncrasies that doesn't alleviate
you of your destiny or your moral
responsibility so no no excuses thank
you very much and then the second part
of it is he he tells them to Ally with
his brother Aaron who can be his
political voice and the idea there is
something like well you know you might
be called upon to do something in all
likelihood and your conscience might
impel you in that direction but you
don't necessarily have to do it alone
like you can find people around you who
fill in you know your gaps now you said
that you had quite a lengthy process of
seeking through the new age realm
through comparative religion let's say
and that you ended up with a Christian
conversion in
1999 why do you think your seeking LED
you to Christianity per se do you have
any idea about that well you know I'm
black I'm a southerner and most
Southerners are Christians and the
people around me were either Baptists or
methodists my family they were
methodists and when I watched them the
way they Liv their lives they did not
have anything that was attractive to me
and and so I mean I explored with
Jehovah's Witnesses I was all over the
place I was always very spiritual I
always knew that there was something
larger than me guiding my life but I was
not ready to say you know this is Jesus
Christ you know this is uh I believe one
God many paths and and I believed that
for a long time but I knew that I was
different I knew that I was set aside
and I knew that uh things happened for
me that didn't happen for other people
but I can say um I in a way I went back
to my roots my great grandfather had
been a Methodist uh Pastor my
grandmother was pastor's daughter but I
walked away from all of that and then
returned to it in my 40s but I always
felt that Christianity
that I experienced that in my youth did
not have any power and I knew that there
was a supernatural world and I was
always drawn to the new age section of
the bookstore I was into Edgar Casey
trying to do an autobi experience I did
a past life regression like I was all
over the place and um and and and I came
full circle I believed in reincarnation
for a long time but came full circle to
a beli
what I believe today about Christianity
and Jesus Christ being the only way and
I do believe that
God called me he set me aside among the
12 in my early 20s I had a lot of guilt
about My Success because it didn't seem
fair that out of the 12 my life was
always better even when I married at 16
my husband and I were building a a brand
new house and it was because of a
government program but my life has
always been better than all of my
siblings and it took me a long time to
get over the fact that you know that I
was different and for some reason I had
a favor about me and when Princeton
heard me it never occurred to me that I
wouldn't get early tenure that was my
goal I accomplished it but then it was
just so empty and that is what you know
the the Journey part of it accelerated
but it culminated uh with me having a
Christian conversion experience
and becoming a devout believer so Carol
you said it didn't seem fair that out of
the 12 children who who were your
siblings that you um Advanced forward in
the way that you had and you talked also
about not fitting and being different I
wanted to comment on that part first for
the people who are watching and
listening you know it's it's possible to
be the sort of Child and Adolescent who
has to grow up and find an intellectual
Community to fit in and so just because
you don't fit in when you're eight or
you don't fit in when you're 13 doesn't
mean there's no place in the world for
you it just means you have to find your
place and you know I knew kids in my
little town where I grew up where you
know they kind of their best years when
were when they were 16 and 17 and
everything was downhill from then and
that's pretty fun when you're 16 and 17
but it's not so much fun when you're 30
and 40 and so you had the reverse
situation it sounds like where you know
you didn't find your place when you were
a child or an adolescent but it's pretty
good to find your place as an adult
because then you have your whole adult
life for that so now you said it didn't
seem fair you also talked about your
shyness and you said that and so it it
confused me a little bit because it
wasn't obvious to
me whether or not you were shy or
whether or not you were ashamed right
you said you were ashamed of your origin
you're ashamed of your poverty you're
ashamed of your accent and the
possibility that you might make mistakes
and so that's different than
temperamental shyness you know and I can
see therefore why a religious Revelation
or conversion might help you with that
because did it did it free you from your
shame is that is is that a reasonable
way of of conceptualizing it I don't
think I was ashamed of where I came from
because I knew that you know I'm
surrounded by people like Claud and gay
who have gone to the best schools in
America America and there I was uh
coming from nothing High School Dropout
and I was surpassing them and so in some
ways I had confidence but in other ways
I knew I did not fit and I and I can
tell you even today I have I I don't fit
in institutions I don't fit anywhere and
so I still feel like an out liar and
it's okay and I would say that it took
me until my 40s to accept myself and
realize that it was okay to be
me and so why do you feel that you why
do you think you still feel like an
outlier I mean you've had a
spectacularly successful academic career
and also one that's associated with the
high volume of publication so that's
obviously a marker of the validity of
your high impact academic career and so
I mean you you you alluded to perhaps
you know part of the reason why you
don't fit in so to speak because you're
you're definitely not descending into
Academia from a multigenerational
history of academics and educated people
so you're kind of a path breaker in that
regard and obviously you're familial and
and educational background isn't
standard for you know upper echelon ivy
league approximate academic positions is
there more to why you don't fit in
you're more conservative you're
Christian you're creative so that's
that's also maybe all are those things
part of it well when I had my most
success at Princeton I was agnostic and
so and I also believed in the academic
Enterprise and so I did not I was not
faking it in any way I believed in the
standards and I wanted to be you know uh
the best Congressional scholar I could
be and that was who I was but then at
some point I realized
that that was uh empty for me and I
think that I've always been rejected and
some of that has to do
with I'm very direct I'm very blunt and
I'm very transparent and that makes
people feel uncomfortable and whether
we're talking about in the political
world or the church world or where
wherever I am I think it's uncomfortable
for people to deal with someone that
isn't acting the way they should be
acting because they know the norms and I
can tell you one of the hardest things I
had to learn uh and I learned it while I
was at vth law school is if you send
someone an email or you contact them and
they don't respond that means no and I
would just keep on trying to to to get
an answer until one day a Dean told me
uh and he was being very kind to me he
said that if someone doesn't respond
that means no if I always respond and so
there's so much that made me different
and I think people are uncomfortable
because they don't know what I'll say I
don't know what I'll
say do you do you regard yourself as a
conservative I regard myself as a truth
speaker and I feel like that at this
stage in my life I have to be positioned
where I can speak truth and not worry
about what anyone thinks and I find that
whether we're talking about
conservatives or liberals people are
more comfortable around those they can
control and when you reach um 70 I'm 70
now I just don't care I care about the
world I care about uh the call on my
life and and ending well when I die I
would like people to say that I ended
well but the things that people use to
control other people it doesn't seem to
work and as far as Academia I would say
that every effort was me to destroy me
and and yet you know it didn't work and
I think that it didn't work because it
it didn't work well so let's talk about
that you alluded to the situation with
Claudine gay now for everybody watching
and listening claudian gay is was the
president of Harvard University despite
being woefully unqualified for that
position in fact I believe after
reviewing her academic record that she's
woefully unqualified to be a tenear
professor at Harvard her publication
record is thin to say the least with a
record like that she likely wouldn't
have got a
interview under normal circumstances at
the University of Toronto for the
psychology department for an entry-level
position and so it's woefully inadequate
now Claudine gay is also the person who
revealed I would say the
absolute decay of the iy League system
at Congress last year with the president
of upen and the president of MIT and
then was embroiled in a plagiarism
Scandal brought to light by publicized
primarily by Christopher rufo who's
working in Florida with Rond de santis
now you're tangled up in that business
in a major way and so you alluded to
that earlier and I also presume that
this has at least tangential connection
with these attempts that you just
described to undermine you and destroy
you so could we walk through the
Claudine gay situation first and then
talk about the other more destructive
elements of your experience in
Academia we can uh walk through the
claudian gay situation first you were
very generous to her uh as far as I'm
concerned her
dissertation which was heavily
plagarized and there she used my work to
set up a straw man uh actually taking
one of my conclusions to frame her
research uh question there was direct uh
ver ver verbatim pleasur ISM but many uh
ideas that were stolen I Quest and I
don't call her Dr Gay I called her
Claudine gay because to get a PhD you're
supposed to have original work that you
uh defend and in my position from my
perspective if that work work parts of
it is pleasu ised then there's a serious
issue there she's only made a few
Corrections of her work and the 11
articles that she published three4 of
them were pleasurez I was not the only
person pleasu rized I believe there
maybe 20 people alog together it's quite
a few and there are about 50 instances
of plagurism she's earning $900,000 a
year her harv uh presidential salary she
was allowed to keep it and to add insult
to injury there's a lot of insult to
injury when it comes to me because she's
never apologized never reached out to me
she's teaching a course in the fall on
reading and research
ethics it would be easy to toss all your
discipline to the side for the summer
but a life of greatness doesn't happen
by taking the easy route the Hallow app
offers an incredible range of guided Med
meditations and prayers that are
designed to help you deepen your
spirituality and strengthen your
connection to God this month Hala will
be launching a new challenge witness to
hope the life of St John Paul II Guided
by Jim cisel monor Shay and Jackie Angel
this challenge walks through the life of
this incredible Saint from his childhood
in Poland living through Nazi occupation
to his religious life during the Cold
War and his papacy at the turn of the
Millennium journey in this Challenge and
learn what St John Paul the second meant
when he said quote there's no evil to be
faced that Christ does not face with us
there's no enemy that Christ has not
already conquered there's no cross to
bear that Christ has not already carried
for us and does not bear with us now Be
not Afraid download the hall app today
at hall.com Jordan for an exclusive
3-month trial that's hall.com
Jordan wow wow okay so part of the
reason I wanted to talk to you is
because was following the Claudine gay
story as it so painfully unfolded and I
learned about you and then a mystery
sort of emerged for me and maybe you can
help me it's it's what would you say
Dangerous Ground To Tread on but I'm
going to try to weave my way through it
nonetheless you would think if you
thought about this situation rationally
and maybe even with a certain degree of
cynicism that you would be a much better
poster boy for the Democrat progressives
than Claudine gay
because there's the racial issue
obviously which unfortunately in this
day and age can't be overlooked but
Claudine gay came from a privileged
background from an economic perspective
and her family is very powerful I
believe in Haiti which is
already is something that stirs up all
sorts of questions given the state of
that Country and she was by no means
oppressed at least on economic grounds
and you came from well the archetypal
rags to Rich's situation fundamentally
and you're making claims that Claudine
gay used your original work to build
herself a pseudo career and hasn't been
called out on it okay so I don't
understand why this isn't a much bigger
Scandal than it is because I can't
imagine
anybody situated to be more credible
than you to bring up these sorts of
allegations which you just duplicated
and even extended you know describing
your unwillingness even
to describe her with her hypothetical
academic credential doctor and so you're
obviously not very happy about this so
what ideas do you believe that she took
from you why does it matter what what
should happen with her what has happened
and what hasn't happened like I know she
still has her 10e faculty position at
Harvard and I can't understand that
because if she
was crooked enough to be taken out of
her position as president for plagiarism
she is clearly if that was the reason
she's clearly not suitable to be a
professor at Harvard because in my way
of thinking about things being a
professor at Harvard is not a lesser
position than being the president of
Harvard that's an administrative
position and it's key administrative
position but 10e professor at Harvard
that's a very hard thing to manage and
you don't get to have that if there are
questions for example about whether or
not you bloody well plagiarized all of
your academic work so and I don't
understand okay so can you help me tell
me what's going on well I can tell you
that progressives never supported me
even when I was hired at Princeton it
was the conservative professors that
were so delighted at uh at what I
presented and when I was hired I had a
national science I had had a National
Science Foundation grant for my
dissertation research I had had a
Harvard press contract on my um on a
book and I had offers of signing bonuses
I had my own short list back in those
days was hired in 1989 started
1990 they held all professors to high
standards and to get tened in the ivy
league you had to have path breaking
work the work needs to be considered
seminal and I met those standards but
early on the progressives did not like
me one of the professors who is at
Harvard today I could name her she is a
friend of Claudine gay but she set me
down the first first week I was on
campus and told me that I acted as if I
didn't need black people that I couldn't
trust white people that white people
would sell me down the river and so I
was never the um uh poster child for the
progressives because I did not fit that
narrative and I was told many times that
I did not need to share my backgr
because I've always shared where I came
from that was always an embarrassment to
the progressives and so look at Claud
and gay and during the time that I was
at uh Princeton and I sometimes I was on
admission committees I saw them pick
blacks that had weaker academic
credentials but the right pedigree
claudian gay Phillips exitor Academy
undergrad at Sanford and uh and
Princeton and then uh the PhD from
Harvard she had the right pedigree they
have always used affirmative action to
and pick the people that they wanted and
I think about um Claudine gay and other
minorities that I have encountered for
some
reason
white Pro progressives or the people who
run universities have always favored the
angry blacks and they have wanted those
in my mind who had weaker credentials
and so I was never rewarded I never um
uh received a an a a cheered position
while I was in
Academia and the environment was just
not conducive to my thriving and I left
Academia in
2017 the immediate Catalyst for that was
2016 I wrote an opinion piece
criticizing Islam it created a firestorm
my circumstances changed uh the
university distan itself from me and at
some point I realized I couldn't my best
self under those circumstances I was not
getting any younger and so I took early
retirement and I had to reinvent myself
I walked away from the tenure that I
worked so hard to earn and I can tell
you that I'm very sad because I love
students and I assumed that I would be
teaching until I retired at a normal age
but I took the early retirement and I
knew nothing about Claud and gay still
in my research until December 10th when
the Chris R ruo st broke and I was
willing to give her the benefit of a
doubt because I thought maybe it was an
accident you know I didn't realize until
I started reading her work that her
dissertation itself was framed around my
work and some of her early articles and
she
essentially uh set up a straw man using
my work without doing it the way
professors are taught uh to disagree
like normally if you want to take you
you can take down anyone but you say uh
who you're taking down why they're wrong
you lay out a case uh for that and you
certainly include them in your
literature review and those are things
that she didn't do oh so okay so I
didn't understand that you had only
really come across this problem after
the plagiarism Scandal broke with
Christopher rufo okay so that's part of
the reason why it's received less
attention than it might have even see
I'm still res with this because you say
you know you said a bunch of things that
are very provocative in the last tranch
of your statements you know you
said you didn't fit the progressive
narrative now it's a weird thing you
know I kind of see this with Ian her Lee
as well you know I read Ayan her Le's
book Infidel oh it must be 15 years ago
and I thought oh my God this woman she's
just unbelievable she's so tough she's
so forthright comes from this backwards
African place under you know fighting
against extreme odds she makes it to the
Netherlands she makes something of
herself she's stunningly articulate
she's Brave beyond belief like you would
presume that the feminists and the
progressives would be hoisting her up on
their shoulders as a triumphant example
of what a woman can achieve you know on
the basis of her character and and the
nobility of her intellect and yet she's
is regarded with enmity among the
so-called progressives now and you're
telling a story that's very similar and
so and then you added something to it
that's even stranger you know and and
really difficult to wrap your head
around so you said it's been your
experience in Academia that the white
progressives in particular who didn't
like you were very much inclined to pick
the angry blacks let's say angry
resentful blacks with an axe to grind
with lesser academic credentials okay so
now you got to think about well why the
hell is that is that you could imagine
an element of racism which would be if
you're going to have black people around
you want to make sure that you have the
great advantage of being able to look
down on them at least for some reason if
they're at least of the right class then
you don't have to put up with their
annoying workingclass
idiosyncrasies and then but that's so
nefarious you know it's so nefarious
it's it's a kind of racism that's so
it's much worse than the racism of low
expectations right it's actually what is
it exactly is that it it is just pure
oldfashioned racism I believe that the
progressives in Academia they believe
that racial and ethnic minorities are
inferior I'm sure you have heard or
you're familiar with the fact that there
are progressives who have labeled Booker
te Washington's up from slavery as a
fiction a work of fiction and so the the
the progressives uh they have to
maintain this thing of all minorities
being victims and black people and
people of color not being able to do
anything for themselves and when they
run across those of us who defy that
narrative there's no place for us and in
my experiences they have always uh
rewarded those that fit The Stereotype
or or who are really to exploit it okay
so I think you put your finger on on
this the core issue here so most of the
pathology on the campuses and in the
broader political sphere that I see now
I attribute to the forceful imposition
of a victim victimizer narrative it's
pretty straightforward right it's a
post-modern derivative of Marxism
essentially although the pedigree of
such ideas goes way back before Marx
into the French Revolution way back
before then into the biblical story of
Cain and Abel right the resentful Cain
who always construes himself as a victim
who wants to pull down his ideal who
wants to shake his fist at God it's a
very old story okay so your hypothesis
essentially is that because you didn't
play the role of victim didn't regard
yourself as a victim and
did take advantage in the positive way
of the benefits that this
system offered you including the
mentorship of primarily conservative
people and that you pulled yourself up
by your bootstraps although you said you
know you had people who were encouraging
you and helping you that you're exactly
the sort of person that indicates that
the victim victimizer narrative is wrong
now do you put Clarence Thomas in the
same category you know I met I met
Justice Thomas we had a very lovely time
for about two hours it was like meeting
an old friend it was quite striking and
I think it was partly because there are
elements of our background that were
oddly similar you know like my father
was my grandfather was essentially was
he a sharecropper in Saskatchewan close
enough he lived in a log cabin and so
I'm one generation farther along than
you with regards to you know the
separation from poverty but it's it's
not that far back in the past right um I
knew my grandfather quite well um he he
died about 15 years but I knew him quite
well and talking to Clarence Thomas I
mean I really enjoyed speaking with him
he was extremely warm and he had done
everything he could to put his life
together and stunningly successfully and
so I think it is the situation like you
and with Ian as well is you're the worst
sort of enemy for the progressives
because you had the tarity to be a
minority and be successful you know and
I see the same thing with this
burgeoning
anti-Semitism the the the big problem
with the Jews so to speak is that
they're a minority with the tarity to be
successful and so yeah yeah so I see so
that's the rule and that's the basis of
this racism is that if we're going to
uphold the victim victimizer narrative
our worst enemies are minority people
who've made a success of themselves and
you know something I feel like that the
people in Academia for someone like me
if they can destroy us they do
and I'm still standing and some of the
attacks on me most of the attacks uh
have backfired in a way that it just
gave me a greater platform but I think
being a strong individualist I've always
been a strong individualist and that's
not something that's welcomed when I
think about my being um more
conservative I did not think of myself
as a conservative when I was in
undergrad I wrote um my uh senior paper
on affirmative action and I was critical
of it and that was because I felt like
it was hurting minorities even back then
and certainly today I see how it has
hurt uh minorities and the worst thing
is this diversity equity and inclusion
because it's like affirmative action on
steroids and I strongly believe that the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 is what
benefited me millions of other people
you know blacks uh even some whites and
women benefited from an environment that
focused on non-discrimination equal
opportunity Outreach I think about my
success I had an equal opportunity to
succeed or fail the outcome wasn't
guaranteed I chose you know to become an
honest student I worked hard for that I
knew that if I distinguish myself it
would make a difference but they have
just telling all minorities no matter
where you come from that uh you can't
because of racism and they are rasing
sucesses except Asians yes well they are
considered white honorary white right
right worse than whites maybe just like
the Jews so okay so I'm going to tell
you a story because I want to get to the
heart of the ma this matter with regards
to Dei so I worked at Harvard for seven
years and I became friends with the dean
of admissions there and I was very
interested in predicting of future
success so I did a whole research
project at Harvard trying to identify
personality and cognitive attributes
that were predictive of success in
managerial positions workingclass
positions creative positions
entrepreneurial positions and so forth
it was a pure research Enterprise and
that took me deep into the IQ and the
personality literature before I knew
anything about the political
ramifications okay so what I found out
was this I found out first of all that
SATs Gres all the standardized tests
that are used to gatekeep admission to
highlevel institutions of higher
education were essentially tests of
verbal IQ and now people deny that but
that's because they don't know what the
hell they're talking about like I know
this literature inside out and backwards
and so they're IQ tests now I talked to
Dean whitlaw about admissions policies
at Harvard and he told me that without
an affirmative action structure that
there would be very few black people in
The Ivy Leagues and so Dean I wouldn't
say was either a liberal or a
conservative as far as I was concerned I
think what he was trying to do was to
find the best people the best
undergraduates to come to Harvard and so
now so that's a problem now another
problem is is that if you just use SATs
and Gres and so forth you're going to
get a majority uh disproportionate
number of Asians and Jews so that's also
going to happen and then there's a third
problem so I talked to this guy named
Adrien Woodward he used to work
for for The Economist very smart man he
wrote a book on the history of Merit and
he pointed out that if you don't use
objective classifications of Merit for
your hiring and your
promotion the systems that don't rely on
objective Merit default to Dynasty and
nepotism so you don't get some sort of
egalitarian Equity if you scrap
objective tests what you get is who you
know who you're related to who can pull
strings and who can put your name
forward well that's what's happening so
but we're in a real conundrum right
because if we use purely objective tests
then we don't get an equal distribution
of applicants from the ethnic and racial
groups we get a lot more Jews and we get
go ahead well I mean I I I've given that
a lot of thought and I believe that
racial and ethnic minorities can meet
any standard put before them but when
they started lowering the standards so
far with affirmative action people
learned uh what they had to do if you
are black to get into Harvard or to get
into the elite schools and I can tell
you my success story would not have been
a success story if I had not gone to
that Community College taken remedia
math gone to Rono College in Salem
Virginia liberal Art School uh and then
Virginia Tech and it I I was never in an
environment where I was struggling and
my personality is such that if I were at
the bottom of the class if I were faing
a class I would quit I would have quit
because I needed to do well and so they
are harming racial and ethnic minorities
that have high standards that really
could have been successful at a state
school or somewhere El when they bring
them in to to make them feel good I
believe that if you hold everyone to the
same standard you will have fewer racial
ethnic minorities uh maybe but now you
know people people have had so many
opportunities I don't know how many
fewer but once people learn what the
standards are that they have to meet to
go to Harvard Yale Colombia Princeton
wherever they want to go I have
confidence in racial and ethnic
minorities being able to rise to meet
that standard and even before
affirmative action during the era when
there was blatant discrimination the
schools in new New England uh and I
would say Harvard 2 if minorities were
qualified they admitted them so they had
graduates uh but not in large numbers
and and now we believe that there has to
be a certain percentage I don't think
there has to be a certain percentage the
difference between uh back when I came
through and now is equity they're
seeking uh equal outcome comes and they
believe that you need people in certain
uh
percentages uh when I came through it
was equal opportunity you had an equal
opportunity to S to succeed or to fail
well the other problem with the bloody
Equity idea is that there's no limit to
the number of ways you can categorize
people and so the idea that we're going
to get to some sort of Utopia where
every single person regardless of how
you categorize them
intersectionally all of those people
people are going to be um represented in
every single profession in numbers
equivalent to their proportion in the
population is it's such an absurd idea
that you'd have to be educated at an Ivy
League school for many years before
you'd become daed enough to believe it
even on arithmetic principles alone it's
so Preposterous and so the question is
exactly what's motivating and it's
especially weird because it really
strikes me okay so there's a worst thing
about this too as far as I'm concerned
so you know I was bounced out of
Academia about the same time you were
and under circumstances that were
broadly similar let's say you were you
were asking questions and for me I think
that I fell out of favor when Boren and
Bach published the shape of the river
and I started uh talking about
affirmative action I wrote op at piece I
favored class-based race neutral
affirmative action that was not what the
elites wanted and that was part of the
beginning beginning to the the beginning
to the end for
me yeah well I stood up against a bill
in Canada that mandated pronoun use and
so but I was no I was also no fan for
example of affirmative action because I
think it does I think it's clear that it
does more harm than good I think it's
clear now so there's another way it does
harm and this is an ugly little thing
too but I believe it's true you know as
I as the Dei movement gave gain steam I
found myself looking with increasing
suspicion on anyone who was black let's
say or of or gay anybody who could have
benefited from preferential treatment
under the Dei rubric I started to become
skeptical of it was like maybe I'd be on
a panel with someone maybe we'd be on
the same side or different sides but
that person say on the opposite side
would be the member of a favored
minority and I'd
think just who the hell are you and how
did you get your position and this
really makes me ill well and I saw this
at Harvard too you know because the
black kids there that I got to know they
had an additional burden to bear like
all the kids who go to Harvard have
impostor syndrome when they first get
there if you don't have impostor
syndrome there's something wrong with
you right but then the minority kids
who've benefited from the Dei approach
they've got a lot bigger helping of
impostor syndrome because it isn't
exactly obvious to them and also to the
people around them exactly what they're
doing there and that's perfectly fine
for the Scoundrels and scamps who are
willing to twist the system to their
benefit who feel no shame for doing so
but for people who've actually worked
their tails to the Bone let's say work
their hands to the bone in order to move
ahead and to be credible to have that
Shadow of Doubt cast on them is well
that's Satan's Choice like I there's
nothing worse than punishing people for
their virtues and you punish people
who've got ahead on the basis of Merit
by using Dei standards I agree and I
think that um with the the way the
system is set up it makes these students
angry and they set up these uh
segregated spaces these safe spaces and
they encourag they they've basically set
up a system of segregation within
colleges and universities racial and
ethnic minorities are angry and I think
they have a reason to be angry because
they know they're being used and if you
can't do the work of course and you're
being told that white people are
responsible you're the victim and
they've done all these things to you uh
all this campus unrest I think a lot of
it has to do with the fact that they
have used diversity the progressives to
bring in people who are not academically
prepared to do the work and so they band
together and now they've lowered
standards to the point that if you get
your feet in the door at an IV
institution many of the state Schools
they're going to pass you along you'll
get your degree but you won't know
anything well the other thing that
happens too although the decrease in
standards is starting to mitigate
against this is like if you would I
spent a lot of time studying the
literature on managerial success there's
quite an extensive business literature
on managerial success and one of
the findings of the managerial
literature is that many managers fail
because they're promoted to a position
that they're not actually competent to
manage the Peter Principle exactly that
it's well and the rule as a as an
employer is something like and I've
learned this the hard way with my
Enterprises
do not do someone a favor when you're
hiring them because it's not a favor if
you take someone and you do and you
aren't thoroughly convinced that they're
competent for the job all you're doing
is either setting them up for eventual
failure or you're downloading all their
obligations to their minions who will
have to work much harder under the thumb
of an incompetent who's likely to become
a tyrant joylessly and without credit to
pick up
overflow and there is nothing in that
you also simultaneously demoralize the
other managers who were hired on Merit
it's a catastrophe and so and I see that
happening in Spades in Academia and so
one of the consequences of that at least
early on was that there might have been
a disproportionate number of unqualified
minority students being admitted but the
probability that they would actually
graduate was very low so they tended to
yeah well and then you can understand
how that would even further heightened
racial tension because if you're brought
into a school and everybody tells you
that you belong there and then you fail
the it's very attractive especially if
you're being shouted at by the
progressives to do this constantly to
blame something like systemic racism for
your failure yeah right well and well
you can understand why you know
and and we're focused on higher
education look what they're doing at K
through way of where they're telling uh
you know minority children they're
telling everyone that math is racist
there's almost no job that you can do
that you don't need math even an artist
needs math and so they're taking uh
minority students and rather than trying
to equip the ones you know that have the
ability to learn they're telling them
that if you're not you know doing well
in math is because it's
racist yeah yeah yeah well and again
that's a you know that's an extremely so
psychologically that's extremely
demoralizing like we know that people
who have an external locus of control
that's the technical term you may have
encountered this in your psychology
classes if you believe that your life is
governed by external forces you allow
yourself to believe that you're much
more likely to be ineffectual depressed
anxious and hopeless okay so that's not
a great outcome cuz you don't succeed
plus you're miserable and you and you
have no happiness those are separable
things right and so whereas if you have
an internal Locust of control and you
believe that you're an active agent in
the construction of your own destiny
then you obviously have to take on more
responsibility but you have a lot more
hope and you're much less likely to be
depressed and anxious and you're more
likely to be effectual and successful
and the victim victimizer narrative is
an external locus of control narrative
it's like you can't succeed the cards
are stacked against you by evil
malevolent people who perhaps were even
around before you were born there's
nothing you can do well you know and
then if you do fail it's because of
these you know forces that are arrayed
against you and of course there is some
corruption in the systems and there has
been racism and ethnic bias and so
there's some of that criticism that's
true but as a comprehensive explanatory
framework it well it's the victim
victimizer narrative that turns the
world into enmity let me say this I
believe that what progressives are doing
to minority communities Black and
Hispanic that is Criminal and part of it
is that they really do want to overthrow
you know traditional institutions and
the crime and the dysfunctional behavior
that you find in the black community
progressives excuse it they encourage it
and so they're really using people's
misery uh even with the lgbtq H
Community they're using people's uh
misery to advance a political goal I
don't think they care anything about any
of the groups that they claim to
represent yeah yeah well okay so let's
delve into that a little bit so there's
a section of the literature on
Psychopathology that includes what are
called cluster B personality disorders
okay so if you you have a cluster B
personality disorder you're one of them
is histrionic that's sort of a
derivation of the old Freudian hyic
you're dramatic everything around you is
a drama right you're you're a drama
queen because it's often a female
pathology by the way hisonic Personality
Disorder so you're a drama queen you
play the victim um you make mountains
out of mole Hills continually um you
take a simple situation and you
complicate it and you make sure that the
attention is focused on you while you're
dealing like a martyr with your
difficult life so that's histrionic
that's not much fun narcissistic which
means you want unearned social attention
and status and you'll do anything to get
it then there's borderline personality
disorder which is probably the most
serious of all the personality disorders
and it's characterized by a pronounced
tendency to victim victimize and by
radical emotional instability and so
that's not much fun and then you have
antisocial personality disorder in that
category as well and that's more male
and it's it leads more to like overt
criminality okay so now the reason I'm
telling you that is because those are
the people who are most likely to
pathologize a victim victimizer
narrative so if you're dealing with
someone who's in that personality
disorder cluster
there and thereafter power and
attention the way they camouflage that
is by presenting thems either as a
victim or as an ally of
victims so right so that's fun so the
like the most serious personality
disordered types are the kind who will
use their own misery even if it's self-
induced and the misery of others to
camouflage their own power seeking and I
see a tremendous amount of that in the
so-called Progressive Movement because
they are you you you put your finger on
it they're using and probably abetting
the misery of others these ethnic
minority groups they claim to be
compassionate to they're using that as a
justification for their own ideology and
for their own power striving it's and
you know that that happens even within
families is the real cluster B types
they'll mder they'll make victims out of
their own children just so they can
parade themselves as Martyrs it's really
ugly it's really ugly well you know to
to go to something positive I feel like
the these people are strategically
placed but they are by no means the
majority and whether we're talking about
Congress that's dysfunctional it's
because the people who have common sense
have no courage because they could stand
up to the extremist and I believe the
extremists the ones that are driving the
agenda they are a minority but they have
placed in a way everyone's afraid to
challenge them yeah well they there
there's no doubt they're a minority you
know there no doubt there's a minority
but the thing is you don't want to
underestimate the Strategic Brilliance
of the approach because if I position
myself as either a victim or an ally of
victims which is even more convenient
because then I don't have to go through
the trouble of being a victim but now
I've got now I'm
making the case that everything
compassionate and loving resides in me
they believe it though so I know they do
well but but then but then the the
upshot of that is so I'm one of these
people now compassionate to a fault now
if you oppose me I can easily just say
well you're against compassion what sort
of person is against compassion it's
only the worst of the Predators that
could possibly be against compassion you
wouldn't be one of the the worst of the
Predators would you be and so that's the
accusations that come out right away you
know and if those are made out against
people who have some conscience and so
the typical conservative for example
tends to be high in
conscientiousness if you make
allegations like that especially as a
mob against someone conscientious the
conscientious person is likely to think
oh my God all these people are upset
with me you know I probably did
something wrong and maybe I am a little
more sexist than I should be maybe I am
a little more racist you know the
Psychopaths and the cluster B types they
have no shame so if you accuse them of
something they don't care but if you
accuse a conservative or someone of
decent moral standing you're going to
put them back on their heels and that's
also part of the reason that people are
afraid to speak well that's why the
conservatives appear at times to be
losing and I can tell you with my
interactions with Harvard University
through my lawyers uh you know they they
don't care uh claudian gay has one of
the best lawyers in the country and uh
there's been no apologies and the insult
to injury when it comes to the plagurism
is that they have never acknowledged
that Carol Swain
exists well we're going to do something
about
that yeah I think I think your story is
you see there's another problem with
your story
a this is always the case with with
situations like this and and this is
really where we find
oursel so look here's the option that
confronts people who come across your
story sort of casually okay they can
assume that you know you came up from
poverty and you worked your way through
the university system with Merit and on
the basis of Merit and you became a
professor and you did your work and it
was plagiarized and it was plagiarized
by none other than the president of the
world's foremost
University which indicates a depth of
rot in that institution that's so deep
that it's almost incomprehensible that's
also characteristic of many other
institutions so that's what you're
asking them to believe or they can take
the easy route out and say oh well you
know Dr Swain um she's doing this for
personal reason she's after status like
writing you off is a way easier here how
they would write me off they would write
me off as a uh right-wing extremist uh
because because uh Claud Gage defense
has been uh it's racism these are they
are racists that are are going after her
and for them to acknowledge that I'm a
black woman you know that has worked
very hard in her career you know has
been distinguished as a professor
they're not they're not going there so
they're just totally ignoring the fact
that I exist and as far as I'm concerned
of all the people that Claudine gay
pleasu eyes I have the greatest uh claim
against her because her dissertation
where she got her PhD that started her
career was framed around my work her
early articles and then if you look at
her she's been fraudulent all of her
life and there's no evidence of a
conscience and certainly Harvard
University the corporation has no
conscience they're not even willing to
have a discussion with my attorneys okay
so let let me I want to push back
against all that because
well it's necessary to straighten all
this out
so are there people in the academic
Community who have a reputation that you
believe to be credible who presume that
your claims of plagiarism are accurate
and Justified okay okay so can you can
you talk about some of them might Yale
but I don't know if they'd appreciate me
uh giving out their names I think okay
that's fine it's fear that has kept some
people from going against Harvard and
for me I I'm retired from Academia I'm
doing other things now and so if I were
still in
Academia I probably would pursue it but
most people who still have a career in
Academia would be afraid to get involved
and when I think about Harvard and one
of the things I wanted to talk about
with you is I think that it's necessary
to hold them accountable in multiple
ways there there are other professors
other than claudian gay who have
plagarized and some of this is because
of Dei I would be very interested in
someone trying to identify a class of
people who have been harmed by Harvard
and the pleasur ism uh of their work and
so I think that needs to be pursued and
I well the undergraduates have been
harmed by it yes you know if they have
professors who aren't bloody well
qualified who are also crooked who are
plagiarizing and who are teaching
research ethics then they've been harmed
because there's I can't imagine
virtually anything more fraudulent than
that well someone needs to start a class
action you know set up the website try
to identify the class of people uh and
you need you know brilliant lawyers who
can identify uh what the class should
look like and that's something that
needs to be done I myself uh have
attorneys we uh had a we had a complaint
for copyright infringement it was
supposed to be filed on June 24th one of
uh my friends who's a distinguished
professor at uh at a university looked
at it and he said there's considerable
risk to you you can be sued personally
if Harvard makes a motion to dismiss
under copyright law copyright law is set
up in such a way that the judge can
order you to pay the court cost of the
winning side and so I could find myself
paying paying for Harvard's lawyers and
the court
CA uh and I was told that with copyright
infringement and pleasur ISM in Academia
it has not been pushed there's really uh
no penalty no criminal uh or even civil
penalties straightforward for plagiarism
and so when Harvard was approached with
the demand letter they responded that um
that ideas uh you know can't be
uh you can't use coporate infringement
ideas law to protect ideas they said
that her plagiarism of my work was Dom
Minimus mean it wasn't that serious and
that it was fair use I don't know that
the lawyers know who I am or they
actually read her dissertation read U my
work but they said that if we pursued it
I would be um we would be engaged in a
frivolous lawsuit and that I would be
responsible for their legal fees that
gave me pause I still May file the
copyright infringement um uh complaint
because I think I have a strong case but
financially I can't afford to pay for
Harvest lawyers there's considerable
risk to me and I'm paying for my own
lawyers and so that's one thing that
there's an individual action that I I
would like to pursue I'm willing to help
someone else set up a class action that
I would help advertise but I'm not sure
that I should be part of the class but
there needs to be a class action against
Harvard and then I had thought about
taking my complaint and the letters from
Harvard and Publishing a book and just
not filing the complaint but exposing
them and I'm sort of a Crossroads I'm
not sure what to do but I cannot allow
Harvard off the hook they tried to defin
plagerism as duplicative language and
they have not done anything duplicative
language yeah and have not done anything
about the plist that they have on their
faculty because some of them are Dei or
hars and um and I and since they are
progressives and they believe minorities
are inferior intellectually they
probably believe that the ends justify
the means that if they deal with that
Dei hars that they will not have enough
black people uh to satisfy whatever goal
they're trying to
accomplish yeah so you are in a tough
situation A because first of all you
have Harvard with its infinite pool of
money arrayed against you so that's
that's a problem and second sharp legal
Minds on her side but also you know you
pointed to the fact that there isn't a
lot of legal precedent for what you're
doing I mean the the rules for everybody
watching and listening you have to
understand that in a functioning
academic community and Harvard was
certainly like this certainly through
the 1990s and I would say through most
of the
2000s if you plagiarized as a faculty
member even accidentally you were in
really serious trouble like that was a
big problem that was is that the prime
no no among academic
researchers it's certainly up there in
the top two or three so but now you're
in a situ you see this is very
problematic because if the university
has defaulted on its obligation to
pursue plagiarism rigorously and now
that's also what they're broadcasting to
all their students by the way they're
completely devaluing the notion of
original contribution which is the bread
and butter of academic in in those
engaged in academic inquiry and so
they've defaulted on their
responsibility now you're trying to make
a legal case it's like well it isn't
obvious at all that the legal framework
allows such a case to be made because it
hasn't been being so because you have to
show for example that you had copyright
and that her infringement actually
caused you damages and that's a really
hard thing to that's going to be a hard
thing to demonstrate in the legal realm
with regards to academic discourse you
know because how the hell do you
quantify the value of your ideas it's
not like you have a like a patent with a
somewhat identifiable economic price tag
on it so I can see why you have pause
it's probably better is it better to
publicize it widely you know in the
manner that we're doing now with regards
to a book with regards to the podcast
circuit to tell your story that might be
more effective than well let me tell you
this it's not it's it's not about me
even though it is about me it's about
academic integrity and what universities
are supposed to stand for and I just
don't believe that Harvard University
with its worldwide influence has the
right to lower the standards because if
they lowered for a higher education it's
going to affect K through 12 even kids
in uh fifth grade learn about pleasur
ISM and and so they should not had the
power to do something that's so
impactful and of course it hurt my
career because our work is based on
citations and if someone is building
their career around your work and not
citing you they're cheating you of
citations and then when court if the
person says that they are being uh
accused uh by people that are extremist
you know right-wing uh I think that um
there's reputational harm why is Carol
Swain pursuing this I'm pursuing it
because it's the right thing it would
benefit a lot of people but I think I
have suffered a reputational harm insult
to injury because Harvard has never even
responded really other than the letter
to the lawyer saying saying that I'll be
sued uh if I go up against them and
lose yeah well I would say you know it
looks to me like your fight may have
just begun in some sense you know
because well you we already talked about
what you're asking the public to swallow
you know I've been watching this
billionaire Bill Amman on on Twitter and
he woke up after the devastating
testimony of the upen MIT and Harvard
presidents at Congress and he started
paying attention and started to
understand that
the that that the Ivy Leagues need a new
coat of paint let's say that's what he
understands yes no they need a whole new
Foundation like the rot is unbelievably
deep and the problem with your case is
that it's pivotal in indicating that
right I mean you just you I'm sure
you've looked at it from the outside but
so just to summarize let's say where
we've been through in this discussion
today
like you might not be a poster child for
the diversity inclusivity and Equity
crowd but you're definitely a poster
child for the American dream right right
seriously right seriously and I love
America I love America well another one
of your right-wing crimes and so and so
and so and you're of the same background
as Claudine gay it given the idiot
categories that we use now and so you're
a very credible
witness testifying to the absolute
Corruption of Harvard right they
actually put this woman in as
President right they elected her to the
highest possible position despite the
fact that she's radically unqualified
and also crooked okay so that's really
bad well it's not surprising that you
have an uphill fight in front of you
because that's a bitter pill to swallow
like I worked at Harvard from 93 to 93
till 98 you know and I really loved it
there the undergraduates were great I
really liked my colleagues they were
working like Mad Dogs they didn't even
like faculty meetings they were very
short so they could get back to their
labs they had a great sense of humor it
was a very intense place it was focused
on quality the administration served the
senior faculty the undergraduates it was
an impressive institution and it gives
me no pleasure whatsoever to see it
disintegrate and become corrupt in the
manner that's clearly occurring and I
don't I haven't seen a
case like yours that's a bigger
testimony to exactly that fact and it's
so it's no bloody wonder that you're not
being paid attention to because you're a
very bitter pill to swallow well I mean
I I agree and my personality is such
that I can't walk away from an injustice
but I want people to know that what I'm
doing or what I'm trying to do is not
about me it's bigger than me and I feel
like my life one of the things God
impressed on my mind was that he' given
me the story the story of my life and it
wasn't about me and um and so whatever
happens it it's like walking away is not
really an option I don't know how it
would turn out but if there if there's a
need for PL for someone to organize or
to set up um the
class where people can identify
themselves if they've been victimized by
Harvard or maybe it's the whole not just
Harvard other universities they have the
same problem uh the universities need to
be held accountable or there's no
academic Enterprise people are just
wasting that time and and
so some something has to be done and as
far as whether or not I do an individual
action uh if I file a federal complaint
you know becomes a part of History it
becomes a part of the record uh does
Harvard want that out there but I do
that at considerable risk to myself
because I could get a judge like judge
Merchant who threw the book at Trump who
decides to take away my home my
retirement everything I've worked to
accomplish uh and so that gives me pause
I'm not a person who is fearful but I'm
ask I'm asking myself at 70 years old do
you want to jeopardize your retirement
I've been you know dirt poor and I'm I'm
comfortable right now everything's on
the line if I file this lawsuit well Dr
Swain you know you did say something and
and I can share my experience a little
bit with you because there's some
parallels you know you said that the
most vicious attacks on you have
eventually turned in your
favor and okay so I actually think
there's a rule there so look at what
happens in The Book of
Job so
job is in a situation where really he
loses virtually everything plus he
becomes extremely ill to the point where
his wife says you know there's nothing
left for you to do but shake your fist
at God and die and job refuses to lose
faith in himself even though he's
willing to admit to his errors and he
refuses to lose faith in Providence and
the story ends with him entering a life
that's even more abundant than the one
he left behind now the intervening time
is a little rough right but you know you
haven't back down and so my guess is is
that as long as you continue to aim up
and you say what you believe to be true
that people will rally around you in a
manner that introduces you to all sorts
of people you wouldn't otherwise know
the same sort of people who are fighting
the same sort of battles that you are
and that whatever you need to provide
for you in your straightened Financial
condition as a consequence let's say of
the law fair I think you'll find that
it'll make itself manifest I don't think
people will forget you I know what
you're saying is true and I think about
David and Goliath and uh and my faith
tells me that I serve a big God he's he
owns the cattle on a Thousand Hills uh
everything that I have came from him and
so I don't like the part of me that
calculates and says do I really want to
risk everything but that's you know
that's what I'm working my way through
but spiritually and intellectually I
know that God has given me a platform
he's elevated me even having this
interview today the way it came about uh
through a senator Bill Hagerty that uh
made the
introduction uh everything you know is
so
providential I just need to um well
people are watching you know the other
well no I don't think so I think that
you need to be afraid of the right thing
like you're afraid that the comfort that
you've built is going to be stripped
from you and that you'll be left bereft
and a sensible person would be be afraid
of that but there is a corollary to that
which is do you want to lose your tongue
do you want to lose your soul you know
and so you've actually got two things to
be afraid of and my guess like the
reason I foray out into the public
domain in
2016 was because a pack of half-wit
bureaucrats wanted control over my
tongue and I
thought I know what happens when the
lying tyrannical state gets control of
your tongue I know what happens because
I've studied totalitarian States my
whole life and so I understand what
happens when
people go along with the lie it's not
good and so I thought well I don't care
what happens to me I'm not letting this
pack of Jack and apes take control over
my tongue and they want me to say words
that are their coinage that I despise
it's like go to hell you pikers I'm not
doing it and I don't care what happens
to me be and it wasn't because I was
Brave it was because I knew that there's
nothing worse than losing control over
your tongue there is literally nothing
worse I agree and I know that uh the
anti-Semitism that surrounded Martin
Luther but I feel very much like Martin
Luther in feeling like here I stand I
can do no other because for me I have no
option but to go forward and I'm just
wired to do what I do
and but it just seems that I'm always
fighting a battle it's always uphill
that's been the story of my life and so
that's the story of my life and here I
am 70 years old all of this stuff was
dropped at my doorstep in December and
it has consumed me it's taken me away
from my Memoir it has uh just been all
consuming but I do believe that I can
make a difference and maybe Academia can
be transformed
and that in some ways we're winning the
battle about Dei I published a book in
uh 2023 after the Supreme Court decision
striking Down race-based College
admissions the adversity of diversity
and at that time a lot of people did not
know what Dei uh was all about regular
Americans uh now they do and I argue
that diversity equity and inclusion
programs by violate the constitution and
our civil rights laws in the same way uh
as um as as the the race-based college
admissions and that these programs would
fail but also we can have diversity
without discrimination and I believe
that racial and ethnic minorities can
meet any standard you put before them
and that what is taking place through
the Dei regime is destructive to our
whole society and I think the critical
race theory that has painted all white
people as um oppressors all minorities
as victims and all white people even
those in Appalachia as a privilege that
this stuff is ludicrous shaming little
white children because of the skull the
color of their skin you know that is
just horrible that we would have ever
done that we were doing it and people
were standing by it and so uh these are
battles that I don't even feel like I
have a choice about fighting but I did
not see the Harvard situation coming on
it has consumed me and so here we are
all right ma'am so I think that's a good
place to stop um please keep me posted
with regards to what you're up to I'm
going to send you an invitation to our
alliance for responsible citizenship
conference in February too I would
really like you to come to that because
you know you'll find people there that I
think you'll maybe you'll find a place
there you know that would be good it
wouldn't surprise me in the least and
there's lots of people who are keeping
an eye on what's happening to you like
lots of the people I know who are
watching and plenty of people will be
watching this podcast so you know I
don't know whether your best Tack is on
the legal front or whether it's on the
broader publicity side but uh this isn't
over it's not over and it's not over for
Harvard not not in the least and they
might think it is but it's not
so good luck with your
continued efforts and I hope that this
isn't enough to demoralize you uh but
like I said there's plenty of people who
are watching what's going on with you
and so well thank you and thank you for
all you do and I do believe we can
transform uh Academia and it's going to
affect K through 12 education and it's
well worth the
battle yep yeah exactly all right so for
everybody watching and listening I'm
going to continue to talk to Dr Swain on
The Daily wire side for half an hour so
you could give some consideration to
joining us there I think I'll delve some
more into her background uh a little bit
more and some more about her ideas with
regards to what might constitute a
reasonable alternative on the hiring
front since she wrote a whole book about
it and so join us there if you'd like
thank you to the film crew up here in
Northern Ontario thank you Dr Swain very
much for telling us what's been going on
thank you
[Music]